README.md, before:

# Introduction

This is a Go application for real-time detection of triangular arbitrage opportunities in cryptocurrency markets.

### Features

* Efficient Real-Time crypto pairs tracking
* Compatible with multiple crypto exchanges
* Precision calculation with fees included
* Notify slack channel when opportunities show up

# Run

```
make run
```

# Deployment

### First time deployment

```
make first_time
```

log in EC2

```
cd /home/ec2-user/app/
sudo cp crypto-triangular-arbitrage-watch.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl start crypto-triangular-arbitrage-watch
sudo systemctl status crypto-triangular-arbitrage-watch
```

### Deploy

1) Copy `config.yml` to `prod-config.yml`

2) Change `ENV` to `prod` in `prod-config.yml`

3) Run

```
make deploy
```

# Debug mode

`config.yml`:

```
DEBUG_PRINT_MESSAGE: true
DEBUG_PRINT_MOST_PROFIT: true
```

# Manual test

* testnet doesn't seem to support all orderbooks.
* If no one trades BTCUSDT, ETHUSDT or BTCETH, combination calculation won't be conducted. Then there is no output for 'watch'.

Run (optional, it's just for receiving order status)

    make run

Buy BTC with $10 USDT

    make buy qty=10
    make buy qty=10 sym=BTCUSDT

Sell BTC with qty=0.000294

    make sell qty=0.000294
    make sell qty=0.000294 sym=BTCUSDT

Get Instruments Info

    make instrument sym=BTCUSDT

Generate instruments file

    make generate_instruments

Test tri trade

    make trii qty=10

All symbols

    make all_symbols

Get order history

    make order_history

# Bybit API response

### public channel

subscribe orderbook

    {"success":true,"ret_msg":"subscribe","conn_id":"d8189029-b0b8-415e-89dd-dbaa99bebecd","op":"subscribe"}

ping on orderbook connection

    {"success":true,"ret_msg":"pong","conn_id":"8c207ac5-8a20-40d8-963e-03e6b9cfe080","op":"ping"}

orderbook

    {"topic":"orderbook.1.BTCUSDT","ts":1699764797519,"type":"delta","data":{"s":"BTCUSDT","b":[],"a":[["32499.27","0.011534"],["32529.54","0"]],"u":873489,"seq":1253141792}}

### private channel

auth

    {"success":true,"ret_msg":"","op":"auth","conn_id":"cl48jvldaugj6f98t3o0-97id"}

subscribe order status

    {"success":true,"ret_msg":"","op":"subscribe","conn_id":"cl48jjpqo29jk1nbp4e0-97x2"}

ping on order status connection

    {"op":"pong","args":["1699766561376"],"conn_id":"cl48jjpqo29jk1nbp4e0-98gm"}

execution.spot

    {"topic":"execution.spot","id":"100401071-20000-1253141306","creationTime":1699764599843,"data":[{"category":"spot","symbol":"BTCUSDT","closedSize":"","execFee":"0.000000306","execId":"2100000000047469164","execPrice":"32635.00","execQty":"0.000306","execType":"Trade","execValue":"9.98631000","feeRate":"0.001","tradeIv":"","markIv":"","blockTradeId":"","markPrice":"","indexPrice":"","underlyingPrice":"","leavesQty":"0.000000","orderId":"1552132392821724672","orderLinkId":"1552132392821724673","orderPrice":"0","orderQty":"0.000000","orderType":"Market","stopOrderType":"","side":"Buy","execTime":"1699764599837","isLeverage":"0","isMaker":false,"seq":1253141306}]}

order.spot

    {"topic":"order.spot","id":"100401071-20000-1253141306","creationTime":1699764599843,"data":[{"category":"spot","symbol":"BTCUSDT","orderId":"1552132392821724672","orderLinkId":"1552132392821724673","blockTradeId":"","side":"Buy","positionIdx":0,"orderStatus":"PartiallyFilledCanceled","cancelType":"UNKNOWN","rejectReason":"EC_CancelForNoFullFill","timeInForce":"IOC","isLeverage":"0","price":"0","qty":"10.000000","avgPrice":"32635","leavesQty":"0.000000","leavesValue":"0.01369000","cumExecQty":"0.000306","cumExecValue":"9.98631000","cumExecFee":"0.000000306","orderType":"Market","stopOrderType":"","orderIv":"","triggerPrice":"0.00","takeProfit":"0.00","stopLoss":"0.00","triggerBy":"","tpTriggerBy":"","slTriggerBy":"","triggerDirection":0,"placeType":"","lastPriceOnCreated":"32634.91","closeOnTrigger":false,"reduceOnly":false,"smpGroup":0,"smpType":"None","smpOrderId":"","createdTime":"1699764599837","updatedTime":"1699764599841","feeCurrency":"BTC"}]}
    {"topic":"order.spot","id":"100401071-20000-1253189597","creationTime":1699777868989,"data":[{"category":"spot","symbol":"BTCUSDT","orderId":"1552243702477624832","orderLinkId":"1552243702477624833","blockTradeId":"","side":"Sell","positionIdx":0,"orderStatus":"Filled","cancelType":"UNKNOWN","rejectReason":"EC_NoError","timeInForce":"IOC","isLeverage":"0","price":"0","qty":"0.001936","avgPrice":"32178.11355371","leavesQty":"0.000000","leavesValue":"0.00000000","cumExecQty":"0.001936","cumExecValue":"62.29682784","cumExecFee":"0.06229682784","orderType":"Market","stopOrderType":"","orderIv":"","triggerPrice":"0.00","takeProfit":"0.00","stopLoss":"0.00","triggerBy":"","tpTriggerBy":"","slTriggerBy":"","triggerDirection":0,"placeType":"","lastPriceOnCreated":"32224.00","closeOnTrigger":false,"reduceOnly":false,"smpGroup":0,"smpType":"None","smpOrderId":"","createdTime":"1699777868982","updatedTime":"1699777868986","feeCurrency":"USDT"}]}

wallet

    {"id":"100401071d62a16b0-cc3a-41d7-b473-086b6cde0036","topic":"wallet","creationTime":1699764599844,"data":[{"accountIMRate":"0","accountMMRate":"0","totalEquity":"100.27419876","totalWalletBalance":"99.70879947","totalMarginBalance":"99.70879947","totalAvailableBalance":"99.70879947","totalPerpUPL":"0","totalInitialMargin":"0","totalMaintenanceMargin":"0","coin":[{"coin":"USDC","equity":"0","usdValue":"0","walletBalance":"0","availableToWithdraw":"0","availableToBorrow":"","borrowAmount":"0","accruedInterest":"0","totalOrderIM":"0","totalPositionIM":"0","totalPositionMM":"0","unrealisedPnl":"0","cumRealisedPnl":"0","bonus":"0","collateralSwitch":true,"marginCollateral":true,"locked":"0"},{"coin":"BTC","equity":"0.0003058","usdValue":"11.30798592","walletBalance":"0.0003058","availableToWithdraw":"0.0003058","availableToBorrow":"","borrowAmount":"0","accruedInterest":"0","totalOrderIM":"0","totalPositionIM":"0","totalPositionMM":"0","unrealisedPnl":"0","cumRealisedPnl":"-0.00000619","bonus":"0","collateralSwitch":true,"marginCollateral":true,"locked":"0"},{"coin":"USDT","equity":"88.94040055","usdValue":"88.96621283","walletBalance":"88.94040055","availableToWithdraw":"88.94040055","availableToBorrow":"","borrowAmount":"0","accruedInterest":"0","totalOrderIM":"0","totalPositionIM":"0","totalPositionMM":"0","unrealisedPnl":"0","cumRealisedPnl":"-0.17895808","bonus":"0","collateralSwitch":true,"marginCollateral":true,"locked":"0"}],"accountLTV":"0","accountType":"UNIFIED"}]}


# Calculation

### USDT->BTC->ETH->USDT

BTCUSDT (base: BTC, quote: USDT)

    BTC = USDT / ask.price

ETHBTC (base: ETH, quote: BTC)

    ETH = BTC / ask.price

ETHUSDT (base: ETH, quote: USDT)

    USDT = ETH * bid.price

e.g.

    baseQuote:  false
    0  BTCUSDT  bid price: 37074, bid size: 0.748953, ask price: 37074.01, ask size: 3.636181
    1  ETHBTC  bid price: 0.055199, bid size: 0.5, ask price: 0.0552, ask size: 0.04
    2  ETHUSDT  bid price: 2046.98, bid size: 0.44718, ask price: 2046.99, ask size: 52.50055


### USDT->ETH->BTC->USDT


ETHUSDT (base: ETH, quote: USDT)

    ETH = USDT / ask.price

ETHBTC (base: ETH, quote: BTC)

    BTC = ETH * bid.price

BTCUSDT (base: BTC, quote: USDT)

    USDT = BTC * bid.price

e.g.

    baseQuote:  true
    0  ETHUSDT  bid price: 2044.92, bid size: 0.21027, ask price: 2044.93, ask size: 34.85644
    1  ETHBTC  bid price: 0.055166, bid size: 0.388, ask price: 0.055182, ask size: 0.342
    2  BTCUSDT  bid price: 37069.38, bid size: 0.050048, ask price: 37069.39, ask size: 6.355316

# Troubleshooting

### `Order value exceeded lower limit.`

It means that the total value is below the minimum threshold. Solution is trading more value to excceed the threshold

### Order got cancelled

req to spot market sell order

    map[category:spot orderType:Market qty:0.247 side:Sell symbol:ETHBTC]

private channel

    order.spot: {Symbol:ETHBTC Side:Sell CumQty:0.000 CumValue:0.000000000 CumFee:0 Status:Cancelled Type:Market}

order status

      {
        "symbol": "ETHBTC",
        "orderType": "Market",
        "orderLinkId": "1700384547433",
        "orderId": "1557332891158189568",
        "cancelType": "UNKNOWN",
        "orderStatus": "Cancelled",
        "cumExecValue": "0.000000000",
        "rejectReason": "EC_ReachRiskPriceLimit",
        "createdTime": "1700384547549",
        "updatedTime": "1700384547553",
        "side": "Sell",
        "triggerPrice": "0.000000",
        "cumExecFee": "0",
        "cumExecQty": "0.000",
        "reduceOnly": false,
        "qty": "0.185"
      }

Reason:

the quantity in the last order of Ask 522 ETH, it seems to cause the huge slippery issue to bybit,
so bybit doesn't allow this order,
I guess the internal logic is turning my Market into the limit and add it to the last Ask

Solution:

Use LIMIT order to avoid this situation. For sell order, set the price as the first price in the Bid

Or retry until it works



# TODO

* profit > 0.001
    * compare all price * qty and choose the lowest money to put in as the first trade
* graceful shutdown
* mysql to store the process of trade
* Add unit test
* ISSUE: sell response `"cumExecQty":"0.000298"` but it's `0.00029772` on bybit dashboard
    * minus basePrecision or quotePrecision
    * https://bybit-exchange.github.io/docs/v5/market/instrument#response-parameters

Commit message:

Make the concept of tri-trade work in manual test, but there are still some unexpected order status to deal with

README.md, after:

# Introduction

This is a Go application for real-time detection of triangular arbitrage opportunities in cryptocurrency markets.

### Features

* Efficient Real-Time crypto pairs tracking
* Compatible with multiple crypto exchanges
* Precision calculation with fees included
* Notify slack channel when opportunities show up

# Run

```
make run
```

# Deployment

### First time deployment

```
make first_time
```

log in EC2

```
cd /home/ec2-user/app/
sudo cp crypto-triangular-arbitrage-watch.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl start crypto-triangular-arbitrage-watch
sudo systemctl status crypto-triangular-arbitrage-watch
```

### Deploy

1) Copy `config.yml` to `prod-config.yml`

2) Change `ENV` to `prod` in `prod-config.yml`

3) Run

```
make deploy
```

# Debug mode

`config.yml`:

```
DEBUG_PRINT_MESSAGE: true
DEBUG_PRINT_MOST_PROFIT: true
```

# Manual test

* testnet doesn't seem to support all orderbooks.
* If no one trades BTCUSDT, ETHUSDT or BTCETH, combination calculation won't be conducted. Then there is no output for 'watch'.

Run (optional, it's just for receiving order status)

    make run

Buy BTC with $10 USDT

    make buy qty=10                         // default is BTCUSDT
    make buy qty=10 sym=ETHUSDT

Sell BTC with qty=0.000294

    make sell qty=0.000294                  // default is BTCUSDT
    make sell qty=0.000294 sym=ETHUSDT

Get Instruments Info

    maek instrument                         // default is BTCUSDT
    make instrument sym=ETHUSDT

Generate instruments file

    make generate_instruments

Test tri trade

    make trii qty=10

All symbols

    make all_symbols

Get order history

    make order_history
    make order_history limit=3

# Bybit API response

### public channel

subscribe orderbook

    {"success":true,"ret_msg":"subscribe","conn_id":"d8189029-b0b8-415e-89dd-dbaa99bebecd","op":"subscribe"}

ping on orderbook connection

    {"success":true,"ret_msg":"pong","conn_id":"8c207ac5-8a20-40d8-963e-03e6b9cfe080","op":"ping"}

orderbook

    {"topic":"orderbook.1.BTCUSDT","ts":1699764797519,"type":"delta","data":{"s":"BTCUSDT","b":[],"a":[["32499.27","0.011534"],["32529.54","0"]],"u":873489,"seq":1253141792}}

### private channel

auth

    {"success":true,"ret_msg":"","op":"auth","conn_id":"cl48jvldaugj6f98t3o0-97id"}

subscribe order status

    {"success":true,"ret_msg":"","op":"subscribe","conn_id":"cl48jjpqo29jk1nbp4e0-97x2"}

ping on order status connection

    {"op":"pong","args":["1699766561376"],"conn_id":"cl48jjpqo29jk1nbp4e0-98gm"}

execution.spot

    {"topic":"execution.spot","id":"100401071-20000-1253141306","creationTime":1699764599843,"data":[{"category":"spot","symbol":"BTCUSDT","closedSize":"","execFee":"0.000000306","execId":"2100000000047469164","execPrice":"32635.00","execQty":"0.000306","execType":"Trade","execValue":"9.98631000","feeRate":"0.001","tradeIv":"","markIv":"","blockTradeId":"","markPrice":"","indexPrice":"","underlyingPrice":"","leavesQty":"0.000000","orderId":"1552132392821724672","orderLinkId":"1552132392821724673","orderPrice":"0","orderQty":"0.000000","orderType":"Market","stopOrderType":"","side":"Buy","execTime":"1699764599837","isLeverage":"0","isMaker":false,"seq":1253141306}]}

order.spot

    {"topic":"order.spot","id":"100401071-20000-1253141306","creationTime":1699764599843,"data":[{"category":"spot","symbol":"BTCUSDT","orderId":"1552132392821724672","orderLinkId":"1552132392821724673","blockTradeId":"","side":"Buy","positionIdx":0,"orderStatus":"PartiallyFilledCanceled","cancelType":"UNKNOWN","rejectReason":"EC_CancelForNoFullFill","timeInForce":"IOC","isLeverage":"0","price":"0","qty":"10.000000","avgPrice":"32635","leavesQty":"0.000000","leavesValue":"0.01369000","cumExecQty":"0.000306","cumExecValue":"9.98631000","cumExecFee":"0.000000306","orderType":"Market","stopOrderType":"","orderIv":"","triggerPrice":"0.00","takeProfit":"0.00","stopLoss":"0.00","triggerBy":"","tpTriggerBy":"","slTriggerBy":"","triggerDirection":0,"placeType":"","lastPriceOnCreated":"32634.91","closeOnTrigger":false,"reduceOnly":false,"smpGroup":0,"smpType":"None","smpOrderId":"","createdTime":"1699764599837","updatedTime":"1699764599841","feeCurrency":"BTC"}]}
    {"topic":"order.spot","id":"100401071-20000-1253189597","creationTime":1699777868989,"data":[{"category":"spot","symbol":"BTCUSDT","orderId":"1552243702477624832","orderLinkId":"1552243702477624833","blockTradeId":"","side":"Sell","positionIdx":0,"orderStatus":"Filled","cancelType":"UNKNOWN","rejectReason":"EC_NoError","timeInForce":"IOC","isLeverage":"0","price":"0","qty":"0.001936","avgPrice":"32178.11355371","leavesQty":"0.000000","leavesValue":"0.00000000","cumExecQty":"0.001936","cumExecValue":"62.29682784","cumExecFee":"0.06229682784","orderType":"Market","stopOrderType":"","orderIv":"","triggerPrice":"0.00","takeProfit":"0.00","stopLoss":"0.00","triggerBy":"","tpTriggerBy":"","slTriggerBy":"","triggerDirection":0,"placeType":"","lastPriceOnCreated":"32224.00","closeOnTrigger":false,"reduceOnly":false,"smpGroup":0,"smpType":"None","smpOrderId":"","createdTime":"1699777868982","updatedTime":"1699777868986","feeCurrency":"USDT"}]}

wallet

    {"id":"100401071d62a16b0-cc3a-41d7-b473-086b6cde0036","topic":"wallet","creationTime":1699764599844,"data":[{"accountIMRate":"0","accountMMRate":"0","totalEquity":"100.27419876","totalWalletBalance":"99.70879947","totalMarginBalance":"99.70879947","totalAvailableBalance":"99.70879947","totalPerpUPL":"0","totalInitialMargin":"0","totalMaintenanceMargin":"0","coin":[{"coin":"USDC","equity":"0","usdValue":"0","walletBalance":"0","availableToWithdraw":"0","availableToBorrow":"","borrowAmount":"0","accruedInterest":"0","totalOrderIM":"0","totalPositionIM":"0","totalPositionMM":"0","unrealisedPnl":"0","cumRealisedPnl":"0","bonus":"0","collateralSwitch":true,"marginCollateral":true,"locked":"0"},{"coin":"BTC","equity":"0.0003058","usdValue":"11.30798592","walletBalance":"0.0003058","availableToWithdraw":"0.0003058","availableToBorrow":"","borrowAmount":"0","accruedInterest":"0","totalOrderIM":"0","totalPositionIM":"0","totalPositionMM":"0","unrealisedPnl":"0","cumRealisedPnl":"-0.00000619","bonus":"0","collateralSwitch":true,"marginCollateral":true,"locked":"0"},{"coin":"USDT","equity":"88.94040055","usdValue":"88.96621283","walletBalance":"88.94040055","availableToWithdraw":"88.94040055","availableToBorrow":"","borrowAmount":"0","accruedInterest":"0","totalOrderIM":"0","totalPositionIM":"0","totalPositionMM":"0","unrealisedPnl":"0","cumRealisedPnl":"-0.17895808","bonus":"0","collateralSwitch":true,"marginCollateral":true,"locked":"0"}],"accountLTV":"0","accountType":"UNIFIED"}]}


# Calculation

### USDT->BTC->ETH->USDT

BTCUSDT (base: BTC, quote: USDT)

    BTC = USDT / ask.price

ETHBTC (base: ETH, quote: BTC)

    ETH = BTC / ask.price

ETHUSDT (base: ETH, quote: USDT)

    USDT = ETH * bid.price

e.g.

    baseQuote:  false
    0  BTCUSDT  bid price: 37074, bid size: 0.748953, ask price: 37074.01, ask size: 3.636181
    1  ETHBTC  bid price: 0.055199, bid size: 0.5, ask price: 0.0552, ask size: 0.04
    2  ETHUSDT  bid price: 2046.98, bid size: 0.44718, ask price: 2046.99, ask size: 52.50055


### USDT->ETH->BTC->USDT


ETHUSDT (base: ETH, quote: USDT)

    ETH = USDT / ask.price

ETHBTC (base: ETH, quote: BTC)

    BTC = ETH * bid.price

BTCUSDT (base: BTC, quote: USDT)

    USDT = BTC * bid.price

e.g.

    baseQuote:  true
    0  ETHUSDT  bid price: 2044.92, bid size: 0.21027, ask price: 2044.93, ask size: 34.85644
    1  ETHBTC  bid price: 0.055166, bid size: 0.388, ask price: 0.055182, ask size: 0.342
    2  BTCUSDT  bid price: 37069.38, bid size: 0.050048, ask price: 37069.39, ask size: 6.355316

# Troubleshooting

### `Order value exceeded lower limit.`

It means that the total value is below the minimum threshold. Solution is trading more value to excceed the threshold

### Order got cancelled

req to spot market sell order

    map[category:spot orderType:Market qty:0.247 side:Sell symbol:ETHBTC]

private channel

    order.spot: {Symbol:ETHBTC Side:Sell CumQty:0.000 CumValue:0.000000000 CumFee:0 Status:Cancelled Type:Market}

order status

      {
        "symbol": "ETHBTC",
        "orderType": "Market",
        "orderLinkId": "1700384547433",
        "orderId": "1557332891158189568",
        "cancelType": "UNKNOWN",
        "orderStatus": "Cancelled",
        "cumExecValue": "0.000000000",
        "rejectReason": "EC_ReachRiskPriceLimit",
        "createdTime": "1700384547549",
        "updatedTime": "1700384547553",
        "side": "Sell",
        "triggerPrice": "0.000000",
        "cumExecFee": "0",
        "cumExecQty": "0.000",
        "reduceOnly": false,
        "qty": "0.185"
      }

Reason:

Don't know, it's really weird. Successful order can also get it

    "orderStatus":"PartiallyFilledCanceled",
    "rejectReason":"EC_ReachRiskPriceLimit",

Solution: Try it after a while

Bybit's response is not very consistent. I think the only reliable way is `orderStatus` (`PartiallyFilledCanceled` or `Filled`)


# TODO

* topic `oder.spot` might not notify order status due to unknown reason
    * use order history endpoint to chceck
* graceful shutdown
* mysql to store the process of trade
* Add unit test
* ISSUE: sell response `"cumExecQty":"0.000298"` but it's `0.00029772` on bybit dashboard
    * minus basePrecision or quotePrecision
    * https://bybit-exchange.github.io/docs/v5/market/instrument#response-parameters
